README.md, before:

# Tealium LLM MAPI Demo

This project demonstrates how to build a personalized AI-powered chat experience by integrating customer data from Tealium with a Large Language Model (LLM). The system uses a modular, tool-based architecture for orchestrating data fetching, prompt construction, LLM interaction, and event tracking — all through a local MCP (Model Context Protocol) server. In the latest release it uses a deterministic Agent to orchestrates all MCP tools. As it was built as a demo tool, the UI contains a collapsible section to collect parameters from the User to shape the demo e.g. the industry context, the Tealium profile to use, a hint to send to the Agent for product recommendations etc.

---

## What’s New in v3.0.x

- **MCP server + Agent orchestration** — the Agent now manages state, tool invocation, and prompt construction.

- **Number plate risk scoring tool** added (demo of industry-specific use case).

- **Updated install and run instructions** (simpler .env setup).

- **Cleaner UI** — chatbot app is now just a thin client.

## 🧠 Features

- Personalized chat assistant ("Tealie") using LLMs (Claude, GPT, Mistral)
- Fetches live customer profiles from Tealium MAPI using the MCP tool `fetch-profile`
- Builds dynamic prompts with real-time behavioral and profile data
- Interprets profile attributes, churn score, and product holdings
- Generates tailored LLM responses, using OpenRouter to call your selected LLM
- Sends interaction outcomes back to Tealium using the Collect API
- Works across multiple industries using configurable context parameters
- Easy to extend and modify tools for new use cases or verticals

## ⚙️ Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18 or later recommended)
- npm (comes bundled with Node.js)


## 🧰 Tech Stack

- Node.js (MCP server + tools)
- HTML/CSS + Vanilla JS (Frontend UI)
- OpenRouter API (LLM access)
- Tealium MAPI (profile fetch)
- Tealium Collect API (event tracking)
- Optional: `ngrok` or a reverse-proxy to enable local MCP tools to be called externally e.g. from a Tealium Function


## 🗂️ Project Structure

```
.
├── index.html # Main frontend UI
├── app.js # Client-side interaction logic
├── .env # Environment config (excluded from Git)
├── mcp-server/
│ ├── index.js # Entry point for MCP orchestration 
│ ├── lib/ # Tool invocation logic
│ ├── tools/
│ │ ├── agent/ # Main orchestrator tool
│ │ ├── fetch-profile/ # Fetches profile from Tealium MAPI
│ │ ├── interpret-message/ # Analyzes user sentiment, intent, topic
│ │ ├── construct-prompt/ # Builds the LLM prompt
│ │ ├── generate-response/ # Calls the selected LLM model
│ │ ├── send-to-tealium/ # Sends interaction data to Tealium Collect
│ │ ├── number-plate-risk-score/ # Custom tool for an inustry-specific demo
│ │ ├── send-plate-score-to-tealium/ # Custom tool for an inustry-specific demo
```


## 🧪 Getting Started

### 1. Clone the Repository
Assuming you have git, do the following
```
git clone https://github.com/rossmacrae/tealium-llm-MAPI-demo.git
cd tealium-llm-MAPI-demo
```
If not, download the repo and unzip it.
### 2. Install dependencies 
From the directory where you unpacked the repo, in a terminal window:
```
npm install
```
(remember, node.js, which includes npm, is a prerequisite, so install it first if you din't have it - see link above)

### 3. Configure environment
Copy the example .env file and then edit it to replace the dummy key in there with your Openrouter API key:
```
cp .env.example .env
```
### 4. Start the MCP server & the front end
To run the demo, we need to start the NCP server, and open the web UI in a browser.  The following command will do both:
```
npm run chatdemo
```
### 5. Open the chatbot UI
Navigate to the demo chatbot UI at http://localhost:3000/.  Enter your demo parameters depending on the context of the demo youre' doing:
- MAPI URL for your chosen Tealium Profile
- Collect API URL for your chosen Tealium profile
- Trace ID (optional)
- Industry context 
- Industry context recommendation hint
- Attribute ID for the Visitor ID Attribute that the MAPI endpoint is using 
- Value for this Visitor ID Attribute (usually an email address) 
- Select your LLM model
- Enter your user message in the Message box
- Experiment with excluding the profile context, and with being concise.  

LLMs can be unruly, as can humans who write stuff - please provide feedback if you're seeing odd things or have suggestions!

---
## 🔧 Development Notes

- The MCP server must be running before the frontend can chat. 
- All tool calls (profile fetch, risk scoring, LLM) flow through the Agent.
- For external demos that wish to access MCP tools via API, expose the MCP server with ngrok or use a reverse proxy. e.g.:
```
ngrok http --url=your-ngrok-url.ngrok-free.app 3002
```

## 📦 Versioning

Current release: v3.0.0 (major update: MCP server + Agent orchestration).

Previous release: v2.2.0
 (pre-MCP, thin client with manual orchestration).

See [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md) for release history.

## 📄 License

Licensed under the [MIT Licence](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

docs: update README.md with minor corrections

README.md, after:

# Tealium LLM MAPI Demo

This project demonstrates how to build a personalized AI-powered chat experience by integrating customer data from Tealium with a Large Language Model (LLM). The system uses a modular, tool-based architecture for orchestrating data fetching, prompt construction, LLM interaction, and event tracking — all through a local MCP (Model Context Protocol) server. In the latest release it uses a deterministic Agent to orchestrates all MCP tools. As it was built as a demo tool, the UI contains a collapsible section to collect parameters from the User to shape the demo e.g. the industry context, the Tealium profile to use, a hint to send to the Agent for product recommendations etc.

---

## What’s New in v3.0.x

- **MCP server + Agent orchestration** — the Agent now manages state, tool invocation, and prompt construction.

- **Number plate risk scoring tool** added (demo of industry-specific use case).

- **Updated install and run instructions** (simpler .env setup).

- **Cleaner UI** — chatbot app is now just a thin client.

## 🧠 Features

- Personalized chat assistant ("Tealie") using LLMs (Claude, GPT, Mistral)
- Fetches live customer profiles from Tealium MAPI using the MCP tool `fetch-profile`
- Builds dynamic prompts with real-time behavioral and profile data
- Interprets profile attributes, churn score, and product holdings
- Generates tailored LLM responses, using OpenRouter to call your selected LLM
- Sends interaction outcomes back to Tealium using the Collect API
- Works across multiple industries using configurable context parameters
- Easy to extend and modify tools for new use cases or verticals

## ⚙️ Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18 or later recommended)
- npm (comes bundled with Node.js)


## 🧰 Tech Stack

- Node.js (MCP server + tools)
- HTML/CSS + Vanilla JS (Frontend UI)
- OpenRouter API (LLM access)
- Tealium MAPI (profile fetch)
- Tealium Collect API (event tracking)
- Optional: `ngrok` or a reverse-proxy to enable local MCP tools to be called externally e.g. from a Tealium Function


## 🗂️ Project Structure

```
.
├── index.html # Main frontend UI
├── app.js # Client-side interaction logic
├── .env # Environment config (excluded from Git)
├── mcp-server/
│ ├── index.js # Entry point for MCP orchestration 
│ ├── lib/ # Tool invocation logic
│ ├── tools/
│ │ ├── agent/ # Main orchestrator tool
│ │ ├── fetch-profile/ # Fetches profile from Tealium MAPI
│ │ ├── interpret-message/ # Analyzes user sentiment, intent, topic
│ │ ├── construct-prompt/ # Builds the LLM prompt
│ │ ├── generate-response/ # Calls the selected LLM model
│ │ ├── send-to-tealium/ # Sends interaction data to Tealium Collect
│ │ ├── number-plate-risk-score/ # Custom tool for an inustry-specific demo
│ │ ├── send-plate-score-to-tealium/ # Custom tool for an inustry-specific demo
```


## 🧪 Getting Started

### 1. Clone the Repository
If you are familiar with git, do the following
```
git clone https://github.com/rossmacrae/tealium-llm-MAPI-demo.git
cd tealium-llm-MAPI-demo
```
If not, simply download the repo and unzip it in a folder of your choice.
### 2. Install dependencies 
From the folder where the unzipped the repo now is, in a terminal window, type the following to install all the dependencies:
```
npm install
```
(remember, node.js, which includes npm, is a prerequisite, so install it first if you don't have it - see link above)

### 3. Configure environment
Copy the example .env file and then edit it to replace the dummy key in there with your Openrouter API key:
```
cp .env.example .env
```
### 4. Start the MCP server & the front end
To run the demo, we need to start the MCP server, and start up the local web server (for the web UI).  The following command will do both. Run this from the same folder as above:
```
npm run chatdemo
```
You will see some logging in the terminal window to confirm that the servers are running.  There will continue to be verbse logging throughout, most of which is redundant and will be cleaned up in a future release. 

### 5. Open the chatbot UI
You're ready to start demo'ing.  Navigate to the demo chatbot UI at http://localhost:3000/.  Enter your demo parameters depending on the context of the demo youre' doing:
- MAPI URL for your chosen Tealium Profile
- Collect API URL for your chosen Tealium profile
- Trace ID (optional)
- Industry context 
- Industry context recommendation hint
- Attribute ID for the Visitor ID Attribute that the MAPI endpoint is using 
- Value for this Visitor ID Attribute (usually an email address) 
- Select your LLM model
- Enter your user message in the Message box
- Experiment with excluding the profile context, and with being concise.  

LLMs can surpise you, as can humans who write code(!) - please provide feedback if you're seeing odd things or have suggestions!

---
## 🔧 Development Notes

- The MCP server must be running before the frontend can chat. 
- All tool calls (profile fetch, risk scoring, LLM) flow through the Agent.
- For external demos that wish to access MCP tools via API, expose the MCP server with ngrok or use a reverse proxy. e.g.:
```
ngrok http --url=your-ngrok-url.ngrok-free.app 3002
```

## 📦 Versioning

Current release: v3.0.x (major update: MCP server + Agent orchestration).

Previous release: v2.2.x
 (pre-MCP, thin client with manual orchestration).

See [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md) for release history.

## 📄 License

Licensed under the [MIT Licence](./LICENSE)
